Sadhguru: Oh!
Sadhguru: He must be some inspiration to all of you
Sadhguru: About not drinking water
This must have happened to Abhilash
when he was on the ocean.
I want you to understand this.
If
Being on the ocean for maybe two months or three months
all by yourself,
one man boat,
means you really have to be in tune with what’s around you, many ways –
in some ways where you can logically understand,
in many ways that nobody understands
but they know it works like that.
Anybody who’s been at sea for long periods of time
has this sense.
Anybody who’s flying for a certain period of time,
they have a sense with the wind and the air in a certain way
Not all of it is scientific knowledge,
not all of it is intellectually correct
but they just know that’s how it is
and it always works that way
because
Like every other creature which lives in water,
they know things which no naval officer will know.
A dolphin
or a whale
or a shark
knows things about the ocean and water and its behavior
which no oceanographer knows in the world
because it’s not an intellectual understanding,
you’re part of that.
So in some way,
someone who wants to go around the world in a boat all by himself,
in a sailboat,
without any engines or anything,
obviously you get into tune with water around you,
otherwise it wouldn’t really work for you.
First of all,
you won’t mentally survive that.
Forget about physically making it,
mentally you wouldn’t survive that
unless there is a certain affinity
between you and that element.
So when you’re in such a state,
you know,
particularly being in the ocean,
largely being in the sun,
The respiration process in the skin is greatly enhanced when you are
in a condition like that
and you’re on the water surface,
so naturally humidity will be there.
You are taking in water –
not through your mouth,
but you’re continuously taking in water.
If you want to check,
you check your weight.
Get into the bathtub,
sit there for half an hour and check your weight,
you will be certain number of grams higher
because body will take in water.
So
No, I had some nasty joke,
let’s skip that
So, this body does soak up water,
either with contact
or with humidity in the air.
So this ability may not be same from one person to another.
One person may be doing it at a higher rate
than someone else.
And those of you getting all creamed up from head to toe,
you must know this that in many ways,
you’re taking away your contact with the existence.
Grease up the entire skin,
it won’t breathe.
When it doesn’t breathe,
its contact with air and water and world around you
Your general sensitivity will go down.
Your neuronal system,
I mean your nervous system will lose its sensitivity
because the contact,
the outer… outermost contact is being blocked up.
So the entire world is taking to this of course now
to block themselves up
because they’ll… they’ll contact the world through the Facebook, of course
Even the bears are going on the Facebook I heard.
Though
that’s different but anyway,
your need for water might have come down quite dramatically because
the humid conditions
and your own openness to the element could have done that and its
If you don’t feel thirsty,
if you don’t drink water,
nothing is going to happen,
you’re going to be fine.
It’s only in America, you will die if you don’t drink water
Nowhere else, people simply drink water.
When they get thirsty, they drink water,
otherwise they’re fine even in a desert
It’s only in America, in cold climate,
everybody is carrying a bottle and sipping continuously
because the marketing machines have done this to them,
that they must drink lots of water.
Excessive consumption of water,
especially if it’s done in small sips,
body absorbs.
When it absorbs,
the sodium levels,
which are very delicately balanced, will drop.
Rest of the body also is affected
but may not be s… so noticeable.
But in the brain, sodium levels dropping will lead to swelling of the brain.
This does not mean your brain is growing.
It means
Swelling means it’s a kind of sickness,
okay.
Not expansion of the brain,
it’s swelling up because of lack of sodium content.
Because there’s not enough sodium,
more water goes into the brain
trying to supply the required sodium to keep the balance.
So more water in your brain means
you will slosh
Psychological imbalances will come
when
when you manage to absorb.
See, if you drink lots of water at one go,
body will decide how much to absorb,
how much to throw out.
But if you keep sipping through the day,
body kind of gets deceived
and tends to absorb more water than it should.
But let’s say right now, you drink two liters of water,
all of it is not going to go into the system.
What is needed, it’ll take,
rest of it will be shunted out.
So
not consuming water and being out there
is very much a possibility.
Nobody need to drink water simply
because you think it’s a good thing to do.
That is what the water bottling companies are telling you,
okay.
When you feel thirsty, you must drink water.
Just to ensure you’re drinking enough,
drink ten percent more than what you actually need.
Couple of cups more
just to ensure that you don’t drink less.
If you’re not the kind
who is carrying a
water bottle with you every minute of the day,
then it’s good to drink little extra water
so that when the need comes,
you have certain amount of time
before you can drink,
that it’s not an emergency.
At the same time, when you need water,
when you’re thirsty if you don’t drink,
it’ll cause damage to the system.
I would say –
this may be very controversial,
the medical fraternity will for sure protest on this
but they will come to it after maybe twenty years or thirty years
I would say if everybody consumes good water
in sufficient quantity,
fifty percent of the heart attacks in the world would come down.
Damage to the heart is immense
when the water that is needed is not there in the system.
But when I say water,
it is not just about drinking liquid water.
You must eat high water content foods.
If you eat a fruit, it’s nearly ninety percent water.
Vegetables and other things are over seventy percent water.
Minimum seventy percent water content must be there in the food that you eat.
But in this part of the world –
now it’s changing of course,
people are becoming more conscious about these things,
otherwise in this part of the world –
what people are eating is very dry food.
Everything that is here is generally dry,
only now
I think twenty-five years ago,
in this part of the world,
hardly people ate any vegetables.
Vegetarians were beaten on the streets.
Yes!
Being a vegetarian is a crime
because they think you’re weird
So, very low water content food you eat
and it goes and gets stuck in your… like concrete,
it sits in your stomach.
Now you drink water, water, water –
that’s not going to help.
You must eat high water content foods.
When you consume food,
at least it must be level
with the percentage of water content in your own body.
So any food that you eat should be
at least seventy percent water content.
So this is why
vegetables, fruits must be part of your diet,
so that it is there.
You eat bread, I don’t know, it may be
it’s just twenty, twenty-five percent water content
or even less, depending on the type of bread you eat.
If you eat meat, it’s very, very low water content.
Cooked meat has very low water content.
So when you’re on bread and meat,
you’ll have serious issues
and I’m telling you –
doctors may think I am… I need water up here
but they will come to this in twenty years, thirty years,
whatever time they take –
I will tell you if they consume high water content foods,
fifty percent of the cardiac deaths will go from the world.
People won’t die of heart attacks.
One reason they’re dying of heart attacks is
they’re eating very low water content foods.
So people may say, “What about other countries?
Why are they dying in India?”
There also, the same has happened.
What used to be traditional meals
and what they’re eating today,
it has changed dramatically
because they are also rule… ruled by commercial forces
who tell them what to eat.
They won’t listen to their bodies,
they look at the advertisement.
The big hoarding
or the television advertisement decides what you eat,
not what your body tells what to eat.
So, not consuming water in certain situations is okay.
But if there is an indication of thirst,
you must drink water.
It’s very necessary that you must drink water
when there’s an indication of thirst
because body has its own way.
When it indicates you need water,
you must give it water within twenty minutes
or at the most half an hour,
you must drink substantial quantity of water.
If you drink enough water,
then body will choose how much to take,
how much to reject.
what's the other question he asked?
Sadhguru: Oh!
Both the sun and the moon have
vibrational impact
and also gravitational impact on the water.
Only the gravitational impact of the water is noticed
by most people because
a sailor like Abhilash cannot sail
Okay, that’s a small boat, it can sail anytime.
But if you have a big ship,
you cannot sail without the tide.
You cannot leave the port without the tide.
Right from ancient times,
sailors have always looked for tide.
Without the tide,
there is no question of sailing in the ocean –
without the help of the tide.
So understanding when it comes up,
when it goes down was very, very important.
Generally, to put it in a very simple terms,
though the
See,
it’s the same gravitational pull,
which is managing Planet Earth and moon.
But the centrifugal force
of the rotation
and the gravitational force somehow are so perfectly balanced
that they’re holding on together.
But actually,
the center of the mass is in one place,
it’s not in two places.
So it’s one gravity managing two bodies,
two celestial bodies.
You know, Planet Earth is also a celestial body.
It’s a heavenly body –
you’re in heaven,
missing the whole point
If you were looking
If you are standing on Planet Mars,
Earth would look like heaven or no?
It is a heavenly body
and for sure the best planet on the
in the system at least,
in this solar system
It is for sure heaven in this solar system, isn't it?
Okay, we’re messing it up, that’s different but
it can fix itself.
If we vanish, it’ll fix itself pretty good.
If fifty-sixty percent of the human beings disappear somewhere,
let’s say they go to Mars
you will see Planet Earth will
just revitalize itself
and flourish in a big way
because she still has water.
Water has not been lost. You know,
all of you are water bottles.
You
You’re little more than them
but
this is a water body, isn't it?
Hmm?
Seventy percent water, just shake and see
So
7.3 billion people.
Let’s say on an average,
all of them weigh sixty kilograms.
I’m not taking into the heavyweights
taking into account the heavyweights
but let’s say on an average,
sixty kilograms everybody weighs.
Out of sixty,
at least forty kilograms of water,
that means forty liters of water per person carrying.
Forty liters into 7.3 billion,
how many liters?
It’s almost an ocean by itself.
So where is the water?
It’s all here
It’s never left the atmosphere and gone anywhere.
The volume of water that was here a billion years ago
is still here
but all in unworthy packages
So
the impact of the sun and the moon,
the gravitational impact is noticed,
but the reverberational impact is not largely felt by people.
But the Eastern societies have seen this in a
as an immense possibility
and making use
How to make use of pournami and amavasya
or the full moon and the new moon
is an entire process by itself.
If you do not know this,
before the British came to India,
pournami means or full moon means three days holiday.
Amavasya means… New moon means two days holiday.
So totally, five days holiday in a month.
No Sunday, Monday and all this stuff,
only by looking at the moon
because this is not just arithmetic calculation,
this is a life-related thing that’s happening.
Whatever happens to the moon,
whatever happens to the sun,
whatever happens to the planet,
happens to us
and to be in tune with that,
those days you’re not supposed to work.
You use those days to stabilize yourself,
balance yourself,
raise yourself to higher possibilities
and other days you go to work.
So
these two days
or even in between, in different phases,
it has different ty… kind of impacts –
what is generally noticed is rising of the water in the form of a tide.
Suppose yesterday high tide was let’s say at 9:30
(Talks aside: We have few more minutes because we started late?)
Yesterday it started at 9:30,
today it will be at 10:20
because there is a fifty minute lapse between the moon’s way of doing things
and the earth’s way of doing things.
This does it in twenty-four hours,
that does it in twenty-four hours and fifty minutes,
so there’s approximately forty-eight to fifty minutes of difference in the ti… high tide
from one day to the next.
So, when you look at this,
every… every monthly, monthly cycle,
it becomes a complex affair
to calculate and to be
Today of course, it’s all being done in a digital way
through the satellites,
otherwise a sailor had to have a very complex kind of arrangement in his head
as to how this is
because if you don’t know this,
you won’t survive.
Many
Almost every creature of the sea knows this very well
and the birds which migrate know this very well
and there’re some incredible facts
about the navigating birds which travel
or which migrate during certain seasons and get back,
as to how they manage this entire process.
The water,
the… the gravitational pull of the moon,
it affects the flying objects too,
particularly when you’re flying on your own power,
flapping your wings.
Even slightest movement in the gravitation
and the reverberation affects them.
How they manage this,
how they go through this
is a very, very interesting story –
not just birds,
even insects
because dragonflies in Southern India
every year make a trip to East Africa and come back.
How’s that for you?
Safari
Dragonfly, this big
every year, they go all the way to East Africa,
breed there,
then come up
and multiply their numbers about three or four times
and come back to India
And they know the way,
they’ve never missed the way.
All the way they go and come back every time.
But now,
the navigational activity on the big ships and airplanes,
they’re disturbing them
and many of them are losing their way
because the reverberations have changed.
One big jet goes and it completely disturbs
and freaks their ability to navigate.
That’s happening to I think every creature,
including human beings,
that whatever we were capable of naturally
is all going away
because of too many gadgets doing things
and too many vibrations happening around us,
sensitivity will become less and less.
About the influence on the human mind,
human body –
the maximum impact of these planetary objects
upon water
and the maximum impact is on the human being,
not on the other creatures
because we are vertical in our spine.
If we were like this
it wouldn’t impact us to the same extent.
Because we are like this
we are a stand-up bottle,
because of that the pull is big
and the rise of the water affects us quite substantially.
We know that
it disturbs certain people,
certain people get headaches on full moon days,
some people get mentally disturbed
and all these things.
The moon or the position of the moon
or the gravitational impact of the moon
does not cause either mental imbalance
or headache
or any other problem.
It only rises,
it only enhances you on that day
because there is more pressure upon your brain,
there is more flow of fluids into the brain.
If you are loving,
you’ll become far more loving.
If you’re joyful,
you become far more joyful.
If you’re miserable,
you become far more miserable.
if you’re meditative, you become far more meditative.
If you’re mad, you become far more mad.
It is not trying to bring any particular quality,
it is just that the waters are rising.
Because of that,
whatever is your quality right now gets enhanced.
So, the impact of
different positions of the moon and sun upon the human body is phenomenal.
If we go into the details of it,
it’s an entire process of itself.
As I said,
generally people are noticing only the gravitational impact upon the water
but not the vibrational impact.
But today,
there are lots of studies telling you that
if you create different kinds of vibrations
or different kind of sounds,
the water responds in different ways.
I don’t know if we have that video with us.
(Talks aside: Do we? Can we play this?)
So, depending upon the type of sounds we create,
accordingly the water takes on different shapes and forms
and patterns,
which are very geometrically correct kind of patterns
for different sounds.
And you know that
the Sheffield University first did this a few years ago,
now people are telling me
NASA has published something,
that talking about
they recorded the sound of the sun.
Have you heard about this?
Hmm?
So clearly, sound Aum is coming.
So these things are not new to us,
these things something we have noticed
because every cell in this body is solar-powered,
okay.
You may call it so many things
but essentially,
whether you burn coal
or you burn diesel or petrol
or nuclear energy,
whatever the hell you do,
essentially all of it is solar energy converted and stored in different ways, isn't it?
If there’s no sun,
there would be no hydrocarbons for sure,
there’s no question about that.
So, the reverberations of… Yeah
So everything that’s happening in nature,
whatever shapes and forms that
different life forms are taking
is essentially largely related to how the water reverberates,
including yourself.
How the water is reverberating within yourself,
that is the kind of form.
Both the physical form and the psychological form that you take
is largely dependent upon this and thank you very much